---
title: 'Coding Adventure number 1 (DoomLike Game)'
date: 2025-04-30
permalink: /posts/2025/04/coding-adventure-1/
tags:
  - coding post
  - Mage Butcher
---

Welcome to my first blog post! My name is Declin Anderson and I have mostly done UI in Unity when it has come to projects that I work on, and so I wanted to learn different sides of Unity! I had a good game idea for a doomlike game and so that is what the first project I will be working on in these blogs! When it comes to what I wanted to implement at the start of this project, I wanted the character to be able to move around the environment and for them to explore a randomly generate map layout. So to kick off this journey I started by tackling the First Person Controller.

FPS Controller:
======
I have some experience with creating camera movement and player movement but not with a first person point of view. In the past I have worked with creating camera movement for isometric point of views so I was familiar with how you want to handle camera positioning and movement so it was a matter of knowing the position of the player and placing the camera in that area. As for handling inputs for the player movement I wanted to learn how the input action map works as I have typically just done Input Managers and so I went about learning this. 

I first created my input action map and created the actions using vectors and buttons for corresponding inputs, then I used the auto generate C# class for the input so that I could read the inputs in my Player Controller Script. Then in my player controller script I made a different variables for different player settings like speed, jumpheight, and the input for player movement, I then got the context of the player actions to use for the different player inputs, right now thats just movement, jumping, and looking around. I then built functions for what is used by inputs to apply motion to the player whether that is moving along the floor or jumping and reading mouse input or right stick on controller to look about. Through these I was able to get a first person pov working and now I could explore the map.

Room Generation Outline
======
So when deciding what I wanted to do for level generation I had the choice of choosing either scripted levels or random generated levels. I originally started by creating a little explorable town to make sure my FPS Controller was working so I create some prefab building and placed them around the zone. As I was doing this I felt like I wanted to learn more about how you would create a randomly generated level then to build my own, so I switched. For my random generated dungeon I wanted to use rooms that built to fill the dungeon and I wanted it to create a random pathway that would close off. So I went about doing that!

Room Generation Implementation
======
So to start I built the prefab rooms that would be used to build the dungeon! I started with a start room that has only 1 exit that is where the generation will start from, then from there it would select a random room from the list of prefabs, such as a 4 way room, a corner room, or an end piece.